We've now seen a couple of examples
of different text-based protocols,
like we saw HTTP, SMTP, and IRC.
And we were able to just
type everything out by hand,
because these protocols are designed for
that.
They're designed to be easy to implement,
just by generating strings.
What's really nice about
text-based protocols too,
is that they're really easy to
inspect as they travel over the wire.
So this means that if you can somehow
capture the information that's
going over the wire, like going over
the Wi-Fi, going over the Ethernet,
then you can more easily debug things.
You can also just poke around and
see what's happening.
With binary protocols,
this is harder because you have to
have like a decoder that's
gonna require something like,
special logic that knows how to
parse that particular protocol.
A good example of binary protocol is SSH.
So if you try to connect
with netcat over SSH and
you can just type something like hello,
then it's just gonna tell you,
no, you're not speaking this
protocol correctly, go away.
[LAUGH] Which is what it does here.
Although with SSH, the first bit right
here is actually a bit of text, but
then everything else
past that point is not.
So this actually discloses
a lot of information,
like about what version of
open SSH you're running, and
maybe not the best idea for every protocol
to do that, but that's how it is.
Also what operating system you're running.
So to use these kinds of protocols,
we have to use custom programs
like the SSH command, or mosh, or
something like that, that knows how
to speak that combiner or protocol.
>> Wireshark.
>> Yeah.
However, if we want to
know what's going on,
not in SSH because it's
an encrypted protocol, but
in other kinds of protocols that
are unencrypted including some
binary protocols,
we can use something like Wireshark, or
I like tcpdump is very fantastic for
writing little shell scripts.
There's also TShark, which is
command line version of Wireshark.
That's quite good, and
you can sort of inspect what's
traveling over the wire on the network,
and it's lots of fun.
It's also a useful
debugging tool sometimes.
If you're running a program,
it's like doing stuff, it's phoning home,
doing all kinds of things that
you maybe don't want it to do or
you need to know what it's doing, then
this is sometimes the best way to do that.
Oops, so
if you have tcpdump, crap,
I don't have that installed.
I do have TShark though.
If you have tcpdump installed,
on Linux at least you can run this
command, tcpdump -x, which will show
a hex representation of all of the data
that's going over the network.
So if I do tcpdump -x,
I see all of this wonderful
information that's just
traveling over the Wi-Fi here.
You'll notice that a lot of this
is actually kind of in plain text.
Like if I scroll up, I see I have a bunch
of HTTP traffic up there, anyways.
So how tcpdump is formatted on the left,
you have the hexadecimal representation,
and this column is the byte offset.
And then you have
the ASCII representation.
So a lot of packets have the source and
destination host just in
an ASCII over the wire.
You can also filter.
So if we only want to see port 80,
we can run these commands.
And 80 is HTTP, which is unencrypted.
So we should be able to
see a lot of fun stuff.
So I can generate an HTTP
response by opening up cURL and
requesting some data from my website.
And here we can see if I scroll up a bit,
indeed here is just raw
HTML coming down the pipe, and
we can also see the request.
This is also true if you're on the same
Wi-Fi, even if it's encrypted by
someone you'll be able to, unless
you're using one of the sophisticated
WPA-Enterprise E versions, your
computer will be able to see everything
that's not encrypted over the wire.
So use HTTPS and use encryption,
unless you want people to be reading
what you're doing on the web,
at a coffee shop, or whatever.
So some fun stuff to try and of course,
you'll see that the browser, or
cURL, or whatever is sending all
of this information in plain text.
So you can see GET, and
that's a space slash space HTTP,
when that one user agent
cURL hosts subset.net, etc.
This is also a fun thing to try.
I forget what capital A does,
but probably it's something cool.
Yeah, this is just another way
of formatting the data, so
you can read the HTML
a little more clearly.
You can see that this is also
using transfer encoding chunked,
with these byte lengths which are in hex.
Okay, so if you want to read more about
these different kinds of text protocols,
I think the best way is to just dive
into these files called RFCs and
just read them.
All right, you don't have to read them
like front to end or anything, but
just skimming them is oftentimes a great
way to learn about new little bits of
trivia that maybe you didn't know about.
I'm sure if I read these, I would learn
stuff that I don't know right now,
cuz I haven't read these in a long time.
So here are some links for that.
And that's all that I have for
the networking section.
So thanks, and
play around with all of this stuff.
Hopefully, it was helpful.